{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c50196;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh14800\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
Started with 171 Cdx and 470 spdx repos.\
Extracted issues:\
No. of Cdx issues: 17,795 issues of cdx 90 repositories. \
No. of Spdx issues: 19,195 issues of spdx 191 repositories. \
\
\
Visualizations:\
1. Show how many open and closed issues exist in each format. Compare with wilcoxon too.\
a. On applying wilcoxon with bonferroni, we find a statistically significant difference between the issues between CDX and SPDX, with a p-value of 0.0012 and cliff\'92s delta of 0.603.\
b. We also find a significant difference between the open issues, with a p-value=0.00271 and effect=0.2 (small)\
c. There is no statistically significant difference though between the closed issues with p-value = 0.0524.\
d. The visualization of open .vs. close is available in cdx_vs_spdx_issues.pdf (13,352 closed for spdx, 5,342 open for spdx, 13,281 closed for cdx , 4,514 open for cdx.\
e. Cdx closed avg 
\f1\fs22 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
170.26923 with sd 458.8266,
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  open avg 
\f1\fs22 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
55.04878
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  with sd 
\f1\fs22 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
145.6175.
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  Spdx closed avg 
\f1\fs22 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
88.79487 with sd 306.7217,
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  open avg 
\f1\fs22 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
37.09722 with sd 163.4658
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 .\
\
2. Show how many closed issues are resolved quickly in each format. Compare wilcoxon first.\
a. The visualization of open .vs. close is available in cdx_vs_spdx_resolve_time.pdf\
b. The resolve time b/w cdx and spdx is significantly diff with p-value = 8.33e-64 and effect size=0.102 (small)\
c. Avg resolution time for SPDX ( 
\f1\fs22 \cb4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
12678768 with SD 25452556) and CDX (\cb2 8528478 with SD 18057422\cb4 ), jub k issues b CDX k zeada hain still they\'92re doing better in terms of response time :).
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
TREND ANALYSIS:\
Since there is an obvious difference in the resolution time and number of issues in both formats, we dig deeper to see whats the trend.\
1. Which of the formats have more stars and watchers in terms of issues.\
\
It is evident from Figure-5 of the previous draft that CycloneDx has more stars and watchers than SPDX (grab data from Arshdeep\'92s files), so it means more community is engaged towards CDX tools and therefore there are more issues too. As number of stars and watchers have positive correlation with issues (Cite literature, otherwise forget this point). It is intuitive that CycloneDx tends to have more issues. If SPDX had stronger community and less issues it would have shown that SPDX have better tools.\
\
\
2. Plot past three years trend and see whose issues are increasing and is the resolution time improving simultaneously or not?\
Show two figures side by side, left side cdx_vs_spdx_issues_trend.pdf and right side cdx_vs_spdx_resolve_trend.pdf.\
These figures are showing the Cyclonedx projects\'92 issues are increasing, yet their resolution time is decreasing which is awesome.\
\
\
TAGS ANALYSIS:\
Instead of tagging the issues, we resort to the already existing tags of the issues and we find\
23,545 tags in 107 Spdx repositories that use tags in their issues, with 390 unique tags.\
while\
23,677 tags in 65 CycloneDx repositories that use tags in their issues, with 360 unique tags.\
\
To investigate the most significant tags, we divide the tags occurrence into four quartiles by the number of issues those tags are associated to, and focus on the 4th quartile. For \\cdx, we found 92 distinct tags in the 4th quartile that are associated with 28 to 5995 issues.\
For \\spdx, we found the 101 distinct tags in the 4th quartile that are associated to 27 to 4522 issues.\
We then exclude those tags that do not convey what type of issue they are associated to e.g., tag names: \'93P1\'94, \'93minor\'94, \'93cannot reproduce\'94, \'93super\'94, and \'93not an issue\'94, etc. The complete list is available in our replication package in tags_sum.csv. This filtration leaves us with 52 \\cdx and 53 \\spdx tags.\
\
We then merge the tags that are technically same but have distinct names to each other, e.g., \'93technical debt\'94 and \'93technical-debt\'94, \'93license scan\'94 and \'93license\'94, and \'93new feature\'94 and \'93nice to have\'94 etc. The complete list is available on our replication package.\
After merging the tags, we group the similar ones in a broader category.\
For this process, the first author sort the tags and group the ones that have similar purpose, e.g., \'93defect\'94, \'93technical issue\'94 and \'93bug\'94 categorized as \'93Bug fixes and Defects\'94, docs and documentation categorized as \'93Documentation\'94, and \'93enhancement\'94, \'93must have\'94, \'93nice to have\'94 and \'93feature\'94 categorized as \'93
\f2\fs32 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Feature Development and Enhancement\'94. The last author re-analyzed the categories of the tags and raised 10 concerns related to the possible duplication of tags e.g., \\cdx having two tags named \'93stale\'94, mis-judgement of categories e.g., \'93docs\'94 falling into \'93CI/CD\'94 category instead of \'93Documentation\'94, and better naming convention, e.g., \'93Bug Fix\'94 should be \'93Bug Fixes and Defects\'94. Both authors discussed these issues and finalized 14 distinct categories of 105 tags, 50 \\cdx tags and 55 \\spdx tags.\
These 14 issue categories reflect 87 distinct tool repositories of \\spdx and 61 of \\cdx. (see categories.csv)\
\
These tags represent 
\f1\fs22 \cb2 17,251 \\cdx issues, and 12,036 \\spdx issues.
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
1. Find the most occurring tags in SPDX and CDX\
Can be found here: tags_prevalence.pdf\
\
2. Find the tags that take most time to get resolved\
tag_resolve_time.pdf\
\
Apply wilcoxon on both ends\
anova suggest that the groups are significnalty diff from eachother <2e-16 \
resolution time difference between spdx and cdx is through wilcoxon p-value 1.5e-149 with effect size 0.180 small.\
category wise diff for each format is available in cat_diff_by_format.csv THIS FILE HAD WRONG NUMBERS IT HAD EFFECT SIZE SO I HAVE REPLACED THAT WITH CLIFF DELTA IN AVTUAL PAPER.\
\
\
}